cats have long since been mascots
bringing good luck to ships
sailors brought their furry friends on
board to up their chances of sailing
safely across
unpredictable waters but this story is
about the first cat ever
to bring good luck to an airship in
august of 1910
walter wellman an american traveler
aeronaut and journalist
decided to take an air trip across the
atlantic
something not yet achieved by anyone
unfortunately
he had to delay his journey until
october for the airship
dubbed america to be fully ready and
thus
wellman and his five-man crew got on
board the craft on october 15th
in atlantic city new jersey just before
leaving the hangar though
one of the crew members noticed a stray
cat dozing off in the corner
with a mischievous grin the man swooped
upon the tabby
and took it in his arms before the
animal could protest
which it did loudly when the crew got on
board
the cat was left in the lifeboat
dangling under the main cabin of the
ship
at first the animal didn't understand
what was going on
and stayed still in the corner scared
and confused
but then the craft took to the air and
kiddo
so named unanimously by the crew let
everyone know what he thought about his
unwilling adventure within the first
half hour of the journey
the ship's navigator already wrote an
entry in the log
saying the cat was rushing around the
airship like a squirrel in a cage
ironic as it was the america happened to
be the first airship
equipped with a radio and the first ever
radio message
sent from an airborne craft was from the
ship's engineer
melvin venemet to the secretary on land
roy come and get this darned cat
in the end everybody grew tired of the
cat's antics
and agreed he had to go they caught him
in a canvas bag
no easy feet that and lowered it to the
journalists
following the airship on a motorboat but
the sea had another opinion on the
matter
the water was so rough that the boat
couldn't catch up
and the bag with the cat inside probably
even madder than before
was hauled back on board and if you were
wondering
yes somebody did let the cat out of the
bag
kiddo grew much quieter then however
realizing he could have been
in a lot bigger trouble when the weather
was fine
he'd even climbed atop the lifeboat sail
and bathed in the warm sun
unfortunately for the furry guy the ship
got into rough weather
way too often and that was when the crew
realized
they were actually lucky to have the cat
on board
murray simon the ship's navigator said
kiddo was better than any barometer
whenever bad weather was approaching he
knew about it well in advance
and warned the crew he got grumpy and
lay low
hours before the storm even while the
sun was still
shining in the sky two or three times
this behavior
saved the aeronauts a lot of trouble and
maybe
even their lives when the storm finally
came though
the cat grew agitated and started
howling and hissing
the only thing that helped was covering
the poor animal with a blanket
and stowing him away in a hammock but
one day
kiddo grew unusually quiet even for
himself
he hid in the corner of the america and
meowed pitifully
the crew knew it wasn't a good sign and
started getting ready for a big storm
even though the weather was fine yet
the animal instinct was right as always
soon the sky to the northeast of the
ship darkened
and winds were rising rapidly in a
matter of hours
the strongest storm so far hit the
airship
and blew it way off the course the crew
might have weathered the storm
if not for another trouble the engines
were failing
the airship was quickly losing altitude
and was threatening to fall into the
roiling sea below
unfortunately it was time to abandon the
mission
all five aeronauts and the cat clinging
to one of the man's chest
went down to the lifeboat and cut it off
when they were low enough
the airship free from the weight of the
crew and the boat
flew rapidly upwards and disappeared
into the rain
never to be seen again the crew battled
the stormy ocean as best they could
until they saw a ship in the distance
the weather was getting better already
so they turned on the morse lamp and set
a distress signal to the vessel
[Music]
luckily they were noticed and the ship
which turned out to be the british royal
mail ship
trent on its way to new york rescued the
stranded adventurers
kiddo the cat astonishingly was sleeping
peacefully in a separate chamber of the
lifeboat
all the while that wasn't for long
though as soon as he woke up on board
the trent
he showed his character once more this
time to the new crew
he howled and rushed along the deck this
way and that
driving everyone mad but the america's
five crewmen now
knew how to get him to calm down and
quickly brought him a fresh meal
that helped the cat got down to eating
and was soon pretty much content with
his life
as one of the crew members put it they'd
been right to have brought kiddo along
on their journey after all
cats have nine lives and this kitty sure
spent at least one of his to
save everyone on board the airship the
trent
safely delivered the crew to new york
where they were met with ovation
despite not crossing the atlantic the
america still set the record as the
longest traveling airship
paving the way for future adventurers
and the heroic cat received his fair
share of glory too
for a while he was displayed at the
largest department store in new york
resting on a soft cushion inside a
gilded cage
postcards were printed with him lying
like a royalty there
and then kiddo who was renamed trent
after the ship that rescued him
found a new home with walter wellman's
daughter edith
he spent the rest of his life in comfort
and never
traveled by air again dare we say
a real posh pussycat